# SpaceX-Falcon-9-Landing-Prediction (Applied Data Science Capstone Project)

The commercial space age is here, companies are making space travel affordable for everyone.
​Starlink, a satellite internet constellation providing satellite Internet access. ​Sending manned missions to Space. ​One reason SpaceX can do this is the rocket launches are relatively inexpensive. ​SpaceX advertises Falcon 9 rocket launches on its website with a cost of 62 million dollars; ​other providers cost upwards of 165 million dollars each, much of the savings is because ​SpaceX can reuse the first stage. ​Therefore, if we can determine if the first stage will land successfully or not, then we can determine the cost ​of a launch. ​Spaces X’s Falcon 9 launch like regular rockets. ​To help us understand the scale of the Falcon 9, we are going to use these diagrams from ​Forest Katsch, at  zlsadesign.com. 
​This stage does most of the work and is much larger than the second stage. This stage is quite large and expensive.​Unlike other rocket providers, SpaceX's Falcon 9 ​Can recover the first stage. ​Sometimes the first stage does not land. ​Sometimes it will crash as shown in the clips provided in jupyter notebooks. ​Other times, Space X will sacrifice the first stage due to the mission parameters like ​payload, orbit, and customer.
​In this capstone, I take the role of a data scientist working for a new rocket ​company, ​Space Y that would like to compete with SpaceX founded by Billionaire industrialist Allon ​Musk. ​Our job is to determine the price of each launch. ​We will do this by gathering information about Space X and creating dashboards for ​your team. ​You will also determine if SpaceX will reuse the first stage. ​Instead of using rocket science to determine if the first stage will land successfully, ​<u> we will train a machine learning model and use public information to predict if SpaceX ​will reuse the first stage or not. 
